# **Risk Register**

A Risk Register is a table of risks that includes their likelihood, impact and how you will mitigate them. Risks are things that might happen that cause problems if they happen. Risks play a massive role in how you allocate time and how you approach testing, so this is a vital part of test planning. Making a Risk Register requires a ***Risk Analysis***, and sets you up for ***Risk Control*** activities throughout the TLC.

## *Risk Analysis*

A risk consists of a possibility and what that possibility could lead to. Hence, to analyze a risk you must *both* note that there is a possibility of something going wrong, an event with a **Risk impact**, *and* how likely it is, a **Risk Likelihood** expressed as a probability between 0 (never) and 1 (always). Taken together these make a risk level, and the higher it is, the more important it is to control.

### *Two Types of Risks*

For software testing we usually distinguish between project risks and product risks. **Project risks** are management-related, having to do with project organization, people, technical issues like scope creep or lack of support, or supplier issues. These can influence the overall project's ability to deliver, and while it is worth being conscious of them, they are not immediately related to what a tester will be testing, but rather things the testing process depends on. **Product Risks** are more immediate to the test objects of your TLCs and have to do with product quality in some way. Since testing is a part of (product) Quality Control, these are **your job** and should be taken very seriously, as depending on the product, they might even get people killed.

### *Product Risk Analysis*

As a tester, your goal with product risk analysis is to target the testing to minimize risks. First of all, you must note that something could happen that has a negative impact. This is done in a myriad of ways, from brainstorming to interviews, and there are tools, like cause-effect diagrams, which can assist the process. Then, when a possibility is noted, you can make an estimate of how likely it is in dialogue with concerned parties you think have relevant insights. Once you have an overview of risks you can start assessing them for risk level (importance).

```python
# If you can quantify the risk's impact you can do this:
risk_level = likelihood * impact
# Note that you must be able to quantify all impacts in the same way.
# Otherwise it would be better if you didn't quantify it at all.
# Quantification gives off an air of legitimacy which yours would not earn.
# It would give the impression that your risk levels are comparable.
# The only way for them to be comparable is for them to be derived in the same way.
```

If you can't quantify the risk impacts, there are qualitative ways to determine risk level, too, like a risk matrix. Of course, you can also just guesstimate a number based on a hunch, but that might not be formal enough for every situation.

No matter how you acquire your risk levels, they play a key role. The results of the analysis are considered in the *[test scope](/1/1/2.Test_Scope.md)* to decide how you organize the test levels, what kinds of tests to run, how much coverage you will pursue, to decide which tests should be run first (to target possibly critical failures), and outside of that, to estimate the necessary test effort and look for non-testing activities that can reduce risk.

### *Product Risk Control*

With your risks assessed, it is time to consider risk control. Product risk control consists of ***risk mitigation*** and ***risk monitoring***.

#### *Risk mitigation*

Risk mitigation activities are things done based on the risk assessment to reduce the risk level. However, not all risks can be (easily) reduced. Some risks will simply have to be accepted because they either a) can't be reduced or b) are not worth reducing (accepting risks is called '***Risk Acceptance***'). Sometimes, risks can be outsourced, so the impact affects someone else (this is called '***Risk Transfer***'), or it is possible to make a contingency plan. In any case, the first line of defense against risks is testing. In testing, there are specific measures you can take to further mitigate risk beyond targeted testing for critical risks and prioritizing. You can also select or distribute tasks to testers based on their experience and suitability for a given risk type, or use testing with more or less independence depending on the risk-considerations.

#### *Risk Monitoring*

Risk monitoring pays attention to the state of the various risks to ensure that the risk mitigation efforts are making a difference, with a mind to how new risks might arise. It basically updates the Risk Register, and beyond that it can be thought of as just another thing that should be *[monitored](/1/4.Test_Monitoring.md)*.

Continue to *[Test Scope](/1/1/2.Test_Scope.md)*