# **Test Assumptions**

There is little to be said about test assumptions, beyond that there is no getting away from making assumptions. In particular, assumptions that could plausibly be wrong, like what test object users will expect, are worth noting.

In testing, you will likely make assumptions about how severe failures in different parts of the test object could be, which plays a big role in estimating risk.
The difficulty of following a procedure also determines a lot about your time estimates and therefore plays a big role in developing a schedule, as well as in estimating budget needs.

Making these assumptions clear is important to anticipate estimation errors and how these can foil the plan.

## *Estimation Techniques*

There are many ways to mitigate estimation error. Since estimation for small tasks is usually more accurate than for large tasks, for example, you can break the big task up into smaller tasks and estimate them separately.
Here are four other ways to approach it:

### *Estimation based on ratios*

Estimation based on ratios looks at metrics from previous projects, usually from the same organization. This lets you derive a ratio from similar projects. You can then use the derived ratio to estimate a likely ratio for the current project. For example, if you find a typical development-to-test effort ratio of 3:2, and development estimates say 600 person-days, you can derive 400 person-days of effort from it.It is a good idea to use projects from the same organization (though this *assumes* that the organization is static enough over time that the ratio will be similar).

### *Extrapolation*

Extrapolation is a form of inductive reasoning which attempts to use what is currently known to predict the future. Using extrapolation to make estimates requires early measurements to get a basis for the prediction. The estimation itself is then usually done with a mathematical model (it *assumes* that the coming procedures are similar enough to what has been done already, or that the chosen mathematical model tells you how to translate from past to future). Extrapolation is well suited to iterative development, where previous iterations can be used to calculate an average expectation for the next. This also lets you estimate the average difference between an iteration and the average (the *Standard Deviation*).

### *Wideband Delphi*

Wideband Delphi takes experts and draws on their experience to make estimates. It is "played" in "rounds". Before you begin, you set some boundaries for range of acceptable disagreement between the experts. Each iteration (round), the experts are asked to estimate without disclosing their estimates to each other. At the end of a round, if the expert estimates are not within the boundaries (for example, if there is a one-year difference between highest and lowest estimates and you have decided that is too much) you've set, the experts must discuss their estimates, and then you "play" another round. It is sometimes called "Planning Poker" and further gameified with playing cards to represent effort.

### *Three-point estimation*

Three-point estimation asks experts to provide three different estimates: A very optimistic estimate, a very likely estimate, and a very pessimistic estimate. These are then used to calculate a weighted mean, with more weight on the very likely estimate. Below is an illustration in python-code. If unfamiliar with Python, you need to know that:
1. Anything after '#' means nothing to the code and is only there to assist your understanding.
2. As in math (this is math), anything inside of a parenthesis must be calculated before moving on.

``` python
# Why '4' and '6'?
# To get proportions for an average. You divide by the number of items.
# By giving 3 extra items with the likely estimate we assign it a weight of 4/6.
# Had it been 1 extra item we would have assigned a weight of 2/4
estimate = (optimistic + (4*likely) + pessimistic)/6
# If we estimate in hours of work:
optimistic = 6
likely = 9
pessimistic = 18
# Then estimate with current weighting is:
estimate = (6 + (4*9) + 18)/6 = 10
# You can also estimate expected deviation from the estimate.
# This does not need to be very specific since you are already using speculative values
# DO NOT apply this method to calculate standard deviations!
# In this case, it is actually off by over 1.5
expected_deviation = (pessimistic - optimistic)/6 = 12/6 = 2
estimate_with_deviation = estimate ± expected_deviation = 10±2
```

Continue to *[concerned parties](/1/1/4.Concerned_Parties.md)*