# **Concerned Parties**

Many call the concerned parties 'stakeholders' because they have a 'stake', something to either gain or lose, in or from the affair. Concerned parties come in many different shapes and sizes, and the concept can be expanded to *literally everyone*. For most purposes however, some parties are a lot more concerned than *everyone*. Some are paying customers and will want to get their money's worth. Some are cooperating towards the same goal, such as a test and a development team working together on a project. The developers will want to know what happens with the testing of their software inasmuch as it concerns them. It might be better to think of concerned parties as everyone who is or will be involved in the project, including people who would get you in trouble if you did not involve them, and, of course, *yourself*.

It is highly advised to get an idea of who the project concerns as early as possible so they can be involved appropriately (and so they won't get you in trouble).

## *Kinds of Concerned parties*
- End-users:
  People who will ultimately use the product.
- Overseers:
  Often called 'Product owners' or 'project managers'. Responsible for development and/or delivery of your product.
- Teams:
  Depending on scale, many teams will be involved. A test plan mostly needs to consider development and testing teams.
- Commisioners:
  Whoever wanted the product to be made or his/her representative.
- Regulators:
  Guarantors of industry standards, legal requirements, etc.

It is very possible for one person to be concerned in multiple ways. For example, a commisioner could also want to use the product.

A test plan is an excellent place to list notable concerned parties and what kind they are, for clarity, transparency, etc.

Continue to *[Communication Plan](/1/1/5.Communiation_Plan.md)*