# **Test Schedule**

The test schedule organizes the planned tests on a timeline in some way. It helps the testers determine what they should be doing, and gives the other concerned parties an idea of what to expect that they can organize activities that depend on the testing around. Having a test schedule also allows you to see if you are ahead of or behind schedule, which is important to be able to communicate to other concerned parties. Having a schedule makes coordination a lot easier.

## *Milestones*

Milestones are significant checkpoints in the testing process, such as when you start performing tests or have completed testing of one aspect of the overall test object. Identifying milestones in your test schedule marks points where you might want to celebrate with the team to build team spirit. A milestone is also a good time to report to concerned parties. A team reaching a milestone usually means that at least one related team can start a new activity, and they would undoubtedly like to know that.

## *Dependencies*

The test schedule is an excellent place to note what tests must await a milestone notification from other teams, or if any tests should wait until another test is finished. Getting an overview of these *dependencies* makes it easier to make contingency plans.

## *Contingency Plans*

If something goes wrong, for example, if a test takes longer than expected, you will still want everyone to have something to do. You're likely to have prioritized your tests, but if an important test must wait, you could have a contingency plan about starting a less important test that does not need to wait for something else before it can begin. Of course, if you must use a contingency plan the delay (or whatever went wrong) will have consequences for others, and might lead them to start on their own contingency plans. If you've coordinated your schedules, you will know about that possibility and know to let them know.

Continue to *[TLC Roles](/1/2.TLC_Roles.md)*