# **Test Monitoring & QA**

Test monitoring is a continuous activity throughout the TLC that compares test progress against the plan. It measures whether and how many *[exit criteria](/1/1/6.Test_Approach.md#exit-criteriadefinition-of-done)* have been met. It is through test monitoring that you discover if the team has fallen behind on the *[test schedule](/1/1/7.Test_Schedule.md)* or if you have hit a *[milestone](/1/1/7.Test_Schedule.md#milestones)*, with all that entails. Some kinds of monitoring can be *[automated](/0/1.Core_Concepts.md#automation)*, so this is something to consider.
Monitoring is an important part of both *[QC](/0/1.Core_Concepts.md#quality-control-qc)* *and* *[QA](/0/1.Core_Concepts.md#quality-assurance-qa)* on the testing procedure itself: QC because it assumes that practices can devolve and continuously watches the process to ward against that while faciliting corrective measures through ***test control***; QA because it seeks to ensure that best practices are maintained.
Monitoring can become excessive on smaller, less formal projects.

## *Test Control*

When monitoring produces concerning information, test control consists of determining and executing the necessary corrective actions to deal with it. Often, this takes the form of directives, such as reprioritizing tests or adjusting the schedule, checking if a test item still meets entry or exit criteria, or adding new resources.

## *Test Metrics*

Test monitoring collects various kinds of metrics for different purposes, which are useful in test control, meetings with concerned parties and towards the end of a TLC. Here are some common metrics:

* **Project progress metrics**:
  Things like proportion of tasks completed, resource use and test effort.
* **Test Progress metrics**:
  Things like implementation progress, environment preparation progress, test cases run/not run, passed/failed, test execution time.
* **Product quality metrics**:
  Things like availability, response time, mean time to failure.
* **Defect metrics**:
  Things like defect density, defect detection percentage, number and priority of defects found/fixed.
* **Risk metrics**:
  Things like residual risk level.
* **Coverage metrics**:
  Things like requirements and code coverage.
* **Cost metrics**:
  Things like cost of testing and organizational cost of quality (control and assurance).

## *Test progress reports*

Test progress reports should be generated on a regular basis (for example: each week). They are the connective tissue between test monitoring and both test control and various *[concerned parties](/1/1/4.Concerned_Parties.md)*. Depending on the audience, different things will be included, and the appropriate degree of formality will vary, but this will usually be expected in some form:

* Test period
* Test progress including notable deviations
* Impediments and workarounds
* Test metrics
* Updates to risk situation
* Tests planned for the next period

This should be considered in light of your *[communication plan](/1/1/5.Communication_Plan.md)*

Continue to the *[test analysis](/1/4.Test_Analysis.md)*