# *Black-box testing*

Black-box test techniques treat the test object as a black box. A black box is something you know does something, but which you can't look inside to check how it does what it does. Hence, these are also known as specification-based techniques, as they check the black box' behavior and compare it to specifications. Since they check behavior they are naturally connected to dynamic testing. Here are four kinds of black box test techniques: ***Equivalence Partitioning***, ***Boundary Value Analysis***, ***Decision Table Testing*** and ***State Transition Testing***.

## *Equivalence Partitioning*

Equivalence Partitioning (EP) organizes data in partitions where any two values in the same partition should be treated the same by the black box; They are *equivalent* as far as the box is concerned. When they get treated the same, one test per partition is sufficient, though EP assumes that each value in one partition is equivalent, and does not verify this.

You can do EP on *any* data related to the test object, but partitions must not overlap (if they somehow do, the overlap cannot be equivalent with *both* overlapping partitions *at once*) and they must have *at least one value*. Partitions are either valid or invalid depending on their values, but the exact definitions of valid vary.

Partitioning should be done with care, since test objects are often complicated (and with black boxes you don't know for sure). Many test objects will have multiple sets of partitions that you will need to cover. The simplest method for handling several partition-sets is Each Choice coverage. It requires every partition in each set to be exercised at least once. As you might guess, 100% coverage in EP is when you have exercised all known partitions at least once, as in Each Choice coverage. You calculate coverage like this:

```python
percent_coverage = exercised_partitions / total_partitions * 100
```

## *Boundary Value Analysis*

Boundary Value Analysis (BVA) builds on EPs by exercising the boundaries of the partitions. Hence, it only applies to ordered partitions (think: numbers). BVAs anticipate developer errors, which are more likely at partition boundaries. Perhaps the developer forgot to set the limit or set it incorrectly? If so, a BVA can catch it. Different kinds of BVAs use different numbers of items for each examined boundary. Coverage is calculated like this:

```python
percent_coverage = exercised_items / total_items * 100
```

A 2-value BVA needs to cover two items for each boundary value in the examined partition. Namely, the boundary value and the boundary value of the bordering partition.

A 3-value BVA needs to cover three items for each boundary value. It checks the boundary value itself and both the boundary value of the bordering partition and the value immediately before or after itself in its own partition. 3-value BVA is more rigorous because it can catch logical errors where the partition's boundary is set incorrectly. For example, if what was supposed to be x ≤ 10 was implemented as x = 10, a 2-value BVA might only check x values 10 and 11, and not discover that there are issues when x < 10, as it is when x = 9.

## *Decision Table Testing*

Decision tables record complex logic, specifying how different combinations of conditions produce different behavior from the test object. You start with the various conditions and the resulting test object actions. Each condition that matters gets a row, as does the action(s if there are more than one). Each column defines a unique combination of conditions and the associated feasible and/or relevant actions. There are two main patterns for Decision Table design: ***Limited-entry*** and ***Extended-entry***.

### *Limited-entry*

## *State Transition Testing*