# *White-box testing*

White-box testing takes advantage of knowledge about the test object's inner structure to analyze the structure itself or how it processes the inputs. While black-box testing *must* be [dynamic](/1/3/1.Test_Types.md#dynamic-testing), white-box testing *can* be either dynamic or [static](/1/3/1.Test_Types.md#static-testing). However, since white-box testing depends on knowledge of the inner structure, white-box test cases can only be created after the test object is at least designed, and must be updated not just for changes in behavior but also for changes in structure. White-box tests therefore require more maintenance than black-box tests. White-box techniques are not reliant on documentation. This means that they are not suited for testing if a feature is implemented. They check that everything works, not that it "working" means what it should. They are suited for testing code coverage.
Here are two common kinds of dynamic white-box tests: ***Statement testing*** and ***Branch testing***.

## *Statement testing & coverage*

Statement testing seeks to execute every logical statement (each line) in the code. Coverage is calculated like this:

```python
percent_coverage = exercised_statements/total_statements * 100
```

100% statement coverage means that each statement with a defect will have been executed by the test cases. This can discover many defects kinds of defects, but some can go under the radar. For example, data-dependent defects, which only cause failures with specific inputs, only get caught if you happen to choose those exact inputs. Notably, lines that say 'if x is true do y' get covered **by checking if 'x' is true**. Regardless of whether 'x' was true, the statement was covered, and whatever 'y' was, *no matter how many lines of code it might include*, they are all part of the 'if x is true do y' statement. 100% statement coverage means everything has been executed, but *does not say anything about how* it was executed. You need ***Branch coverage*** for that.

## *Branch testing & coverage*

Code branches whenever it checks a condition and uses that condition to decide which line it reads next. When this happens, even if it is as simple as 'if x is true do y', it creates two branches: One where x was true and one where it was false. (A branching point can be *much* more complex than this example!) Branch coverage represents the proportion of branches that have been exercised by test cases. Code without any condition-checks is just a single branch, and then case statement testing and branch testing are identical. Branch coverage is calculated like this:

```python
percent_coverage = exercised_branches / total_branches * 100
```

100% branch coverage means that you also have 100% statement coverage, but a single branching point might mean 100% statement coverage with 50% or less branch coverage. While branch coverage is more thorough (and requires more work), it can miss path-specific defects, and it shares branch-coverage's weakness for data-dependent defects. (Paths are to branches what branches are to statements.)

Continue to *[experience-based testing](/1/3/2/3.Experience_Based_Testing.md)*