# *Test types*

There are two types of tests, ***Static*** and ***Dynamic***.

## *Static testing*

Static testing (or analysis) does not need to activate, execute, or in any other way start its test object. It analyses it in a single, static *state*, and check its properties as such. Since it does not need to activate the test object it often requires less effort than its counterpart. If you read over a text to look for spelling mistakes, that is a static test, just as it would be if a computer ran another program to scan software source code for security risks. It is easily *[shifted left](/0/1.Core_Concepts.md#shift-left)* and *[automated](/0/1.Core_Concepts.md#automation)* in software projects. However, for static testing to be effective you need a structure to check it against, so for loosely organized or otherwise informal work products it might not be viable. It is also inappropriate to employ static testing on things that are hard to interpret, or, perhaps obviously, which you do not have the legal right to check.
As you can probably tell, there is a *lot* of static testing in a formal TLC, including testing of the test plan and its various components like the *[scope](/1/1/2.Test_Scope.md)* and *[risk register](/1/1/1.Risk_Register.md)*, as well as in testing the coverage of your tests.

## *Dynamic testing*

Dynamic testing is the opposite of static testing. If something can be tested statically that is probably going to be more cost-effective, but some things must be tested while the test object is active in a real-world (or as close to real-world as possible) scenario. For example, while you can inspect a fire alarm and evacuation plans for when it activates, you can not test how a mass of people will respond to it without activating it. You will also need dynamic testing to test the interactions between one software system and another or to test things like performance. Automating dynamic tests is more complicated than automating static tests, so it is rarely as automated as static testing is on the same project. It also does not exactly find defects, but rather *causes [failures](/0/1.Core_Concepts.md#failures)* that indicate the presence of a defect.

## *Which is more suitable?*

Static testing is more efficient and/or cost-effective at the following:
* Finding defects in pathways that are rarely used.
* Things that can't be executed (duh!).
* Testing qualities that are execution-independent (e.g.,maintainability).
* Inconsistent or duplicate requirements.
* Design defects (e.g., inefficient architecture).
* Some types of code defects (e.g., excess complexity or unreachable code).
* Deviations from a standard.
* Interface errors.
* Security vulnerabilities (e.g., buffer overflows)
* Test coverage issues.

Continue to *[test techniques](/1/3/2.Test_Techniques.md)*