# **Core Concepts**

## *Testing*

Testing is a largely intellectual activity that requires careful planning, deductive skills and a capacity for thinking about how things fit together in systems. Testing always involves a ***test object***, which is what you are testing. The testing process usually creates numerous byproducts, usually called "***work products***". A typical test aims to discover defects before they become a problem, whether these defects are system failures of some kind or defects according to a requirement for the test object (requirements can be contractual, regulatory, technical and based on user expectations). Therefore, it is also important to evaluate the suitability of the test's own work products for these purposes. For example, the test should be designed in such a way that it achieves satisfying coverage of the test object's functionalities based on estimates of cost-to-benefit ratio in minimizing risk.
Whatever the test finds is valuable information that should be forwarded to those it might concern so they can make informed decisions. With that, the Tester participates in ***Quality Control***, which justifies confidence in the quality of the final product.

## *Quality Control (QC)*

Quality Control assumes there are defects and describes activities which assist in finding and correcting them. Testing is a major form or part of Quality Control. QC is related to ***Quality Assurance***, but hardly more than anything else is.

## *Quality Assurance (QA)*

Quality Assurance assumes that following a good process leads to a good product. You can understand it as a matter of following best practices, which means it applies to everything for which there is a best practice, including monitoring performance. Having QC is a matter of QA because while good processes lead to good products, things can and will slip through the cracks.

## *Software Development LifeCycle (SDLC)*

A Software Development LifeCycle (model) is an abstract model of how software gets developed. A SDLC shows what should happen and in what order (and why). There are some general patterns for this that implement testing in different ways, but in general the [Test LifeCycle](/0/0.3.Test_LifeCycle.md) will be the same, even if it is spaced out or automated. Therefore, there is little need to go into more detail, but it is important to know about it.

## *Root Causes*

A root cause is the ultimate reason for one or more problems. Root causes are sought in root cause analysis, which usually follows the discovery of a problem. Once found, the root cause should be fixed or removed.

## *Failures*

A failure occurs when a system either fails to do what it should do or does something it should not do. The root cause may or may not be external to the SDLC.

## *Defects*

Defects are the features of a product which are in some way "faulty" or "buggy", that is, the parts that produce failures. For example, it might be a mismatch between documentation and product, or a line of code which is written incorrectly.


## *Errors*

Humans make mistakes, and in this context they are known as errors. These errors will often produce defects.

*[Continue here](/0/0.2.Principles_of_Testing.md)*