# **Essential skills**

These skills are fairly generic, but range from highly relevant to necessary for a tester.

* ***Testing Knowledge***
  Being familiar with the terminology and various methods and techniques used in testing makes you a more efficient and capable tester. That is more or less why you are here.
* ***Various personal qualities***
  If you are particularly thorough, methodical, careful, curious, or attentive to details, either one, that will make you more suited for testing activities. This is especially beneficial when it comes to easily overlooked defects.
* ***Communication skills***
  If you are good at active listening and at communicating your points, that will make you interact more effectively with your team and other concerned parties. If you are also a team player that will only make things easier. Since testers often report bad news and this can sour people against you, it is particularly important to be good at coming off as constructive.
* ***Thinking Skills***
  If you are adept at analysis, that will make it easier for you to identify patterns in the test object's behavior and to parse the complexities of the test into smaller sub-tests. If you are adept at criticism, that will make it easier for you to identify assumptions and discern what is relevant and where. If you are adept at logic, you will have an easier time recognize fallacious reasoning, and in evaluating possibilities. Finally, if you are particularly creative you will have an easier time getting un-stuck when things are not working as expected and you have to improvise.
* ***Technical knowledge***
  Being familiar with the tools of your trade, how to make them do what you want, and which tool is appropriate for what you drastically improve your efficiency as a tester.
* ***Domain knowledge***
  If you are familiar with the domain you are testing you can make informed decisions on your own and you are better suited for understanding what team members and other concerned parties are talking about.

Continue to *[Test LifeCycle](/0/4.Test_LifeCycle.md)*