# **The Test LifeCycle (TLC)**

The Test LifeCycle (henceforth: TLC) consists of three phases:
1. [Preparatory phase](/1/0.Preparatory_Phase_Overview.md)
2. [Test-execution phase](/2/0.Test-execution_Phase_Overview.md)
3. [Reporting phase](/3/0.Reporting_Phase_Overview.md)

The rest of this text is organized around the TLC. If you follow the links above they will take you to the overview of the different phases.

## *Nested TLCs: Test Levels*

There is a TLC for every test, and just about all tests can be broken up into smaller tests which would then have their own TLCs. At the highest level of analysis you can have a TLC for the entire (software) development lifecycle. At the lowest level of analysis a test is a way to find the answer to a question. At that level, the TLC can be as simple as this:
1. Have a question ('what is for dinner?').
2. Find a way to answer it ('I can ask mother').
3. Try that (ask her).
A higher-level TLC may need information from the Reporting phase of the smaller tests inside of it to proceed to the next tests in an informed manner, or before it can proceed to its own Reporting phase. Therefore it may be easier to think of them from the smallest scale to the highest.

### *Component testing*

Component or unit testing looks at the smallest components/units of the product in isolation, to verify and validate them. To test components in isolation requires some kind of test harness, which is usually obtained from a unit testing framework. These allow for component testing to run as code.

### *Component integration testing*

Component or unit integration testing looks at how a component interfaces with other components. The method depends a lot on how you approach component integration. If you know the component is faulty, there is little point in component integration testing with it unless you also know its faults are unrelated to its interface.

### *System testing*

System testing is like component testing at the scale of a system consisting of several components or a fully-fledged product. Due to the larger scale, at this point it becomes relevant to test performance and other non-functional aspects of the system as well as the functional tests applicable to components. This should be done in a representative test environment. Since a system consists of integrated components, it makes very little sense to do system testing when there are faults in component integration. At this level it is worth considering having an independent test team perform the test.

### *System integration testing*

Like component integration testing, system integration testing looks at a system's interfaces towards other systems and external services. These tests should be done in an environment that is similar to the operational environment.

### *Acceptance testing*

Acceptance testing is mainly about validating the product, thereby demonstrating that it is ready for deployment, sale, or release. It should ideally be performed by the intended users. Acceptance testing should cover all relevant forms of *[validation](/0/1.Core_Concepts.md#validation)* for the product.

### *Nested Test levels*

Here is an illustration of nested TLCs in the syntax of the Python programming language. To understand it you need to know three things:
1. Any line ending with a '(' is a planned activity in a TLC.
2. Anything on a line that comes after '#' means nothing to the code. It is only there to assist your understanding.
3. As in math, everything inside of parentheses '(what is here)' has to be calculated before the activity can continue. Thus, the parentheses are the key to understanding the figure.

``` python
acceptance_testing(
    # Before starting acceptance test execution you will want to know that
    # System integration testing is in order   
    system_integration_testing(
        # Similarly, for system integration testing you will want to know that
        # System testing is in order
        system_testing(
            # And so it goes
            component_integration_testing(
                # Finally, component integration tests depend on components
                component_testing(
                    green_light_from_component_developers
                )
            )
        )
    )
)
```
*The figure shows that acceptance testing wants a green light from system integration testing; that system integration testing wants a green light from system testing; that system testing wants a green light from component integration testing; and that component testing wants a green light from its developers. A full-scale TLC will want to plan for all of these levels.*

### *Test Pyramids*

Test pyramids are a kind of model that shows test levels in a different way to help people think about it. Generally speaking, the bottom of they pyramid is smaller, more specific tests. These are short and simple but if you are going to cover everything with them you will need *a lot* of tests. As we move towards the top of the pyramid, each test in a given level covers more of the test object than the levels below. Consequently, fewer tests would be required to cover everything. However, the tests at higher levels are also usually significantly more complex and require significantly more effort. Since the TLC is fractal, there are many ways you can label and number the levels in a test pyramid; As long as they have these relative features compared to each other.

### *Level-independent tests*

It is important to remember the role of [maintenance tests](/0/1.Core_Concepts.md#maintenance-tests) in a TLC. Few things will work perfectly the first time around, and regression tests will need to be repeated to ensure that everything still works while confirmation tests confirm that former defects have been fixed. Their place is more or less as part of test-execution in every single TLC.

Continue *[here](/1/0.Preparatory_Phase_Overview.md)*