# **Test Design**¨

Test design is the second step in the logical throughline of the tester's activities in a TLC. It takes the answer from *[test analysis](/1/4.Test_Analysis.md)* (the question was "what to test?"), the ***test conditions***, and elaborates on 'how to test' them. It draws more extensively on the *[technical knowledge](/1/4/1.Test_Types.md)* of testers than test analysis does, and uses it to identify the appropriate coverage items and *[techniques](/1/4/2.Test_Techniques.md)*.

In light of that, it may be worth looking over those two links again; It was relevant there, but is *more* relevant here. Important topics like coverage are covered there.

From the test conditions obtained in test analysis, test design should produce prioritized test cases, test charters (with a list of test objectives), coverage items, and requirements for test data and test environments, respectively.

## *Test case prioritization*

Test case prioritization applies in the same way to both the ***test procedures*** and ***test suites*** from the third step, *[Test Implementation](/2/2.Test_Implementation.md)*. Based on priority, cases, procedures and suites should be scheduled so that the tests that you consider most important get executed first, no matter how you determine importance. However, this ideal is rarely feasible. Some test cases depend on other test cases, and high priority test cases that depend on low priority test cases will have to wait. In addition, what resources are available and when can also impact prioritization. That said, here are the very common test prioritization strategies:

### *Risk-based*

You either conduct or reference a *[risk analysis](/1/1/1.Risk_Register.md#risk-analysis)* and prioritize based on importance.

### *Coverage-based*

You analyze the coverage of the various test cases and prioritize the test cases that provide the most coverage. A notable variant called ***additional coverage prioritiziation*** doesn't just look at highest coverage overall, but checks which test case provides the most coverage after the previous test cases and prioritizes that one.

### *Requirements-based*

You use requirements from various *[concerned parties](/1/1/4.Concerned_Parties.md)* to determine which test cases are most important based on how much they touch on those requirements.

Continue to *[test implementation](/2/2.Test_Implementation.md)*.